Adventurers take many shapes in Dungeon World. The races of elves, men, dwarves, and halflings all have their heroes. Some are near-invincible beasts of battle encased in iron armor. Others are more mysterious, conjuring up and wielding the mighty forces of magic. Treasure and glory are sought by a holy cleric, a tricky thief, a mighty paladin, and more.

It isn’t all easy heroics and noble bravery, though. Every time the ranger guides his friends through the ancient woods there are a hundred things waiting to bite his head off. Slavering hordes of goblin troops, maybe. Or is this the Cursed Wood, where dwells the Gray Witch? Or the throngs of hateful dead, looking to drag a meaty corpse back to their lair? Scary, sure, but there’s treasure, too. More gold and jewels and magic lost to man have fallen between the cracks in the world than you can imagine. Who better to retrieve it than a band of stalwart heroes?

You and your friends are those heroes. You go where others can’t or won’t. There are monstrous things lurking in the world. Are you ready to face them?

The poems say an adventurer’s life is all open roads and the glory of coin and combat. The tales told in every farmhand-filled inn have to have some ring of truth to them, don’t they? The songs to inspire peasantry and royals alike—to soothe the savage beast or drive men to a frenzy—have to come from somewhere.

Enter the bard. You, with your smooth tongue and quick wit. You teller-of-tales and singer-of-songs. A mere minstrel can retell a thing, but it takes a true bard to live it. Strap on your boots, noble orator. Sharpen that hidden dagger and take up the call. Someone’s got to be there, fighting shoulder-to-shoulder with the goons and the thugs and the soon-to-be-heroes. Who better than you to write the tale of your own heroism?

The lands of Dungeon World are a gods-forsaken mess. They’re lousy with the walking dead, beasts of all sorts, and the vast unnatural spaces between safe and temple-blessed civilizations. It is a godless world out there. That’s why it needs you.

Bringing the glory of your god to the heathens isn’t just in your nature—it’s your calling. It falls to you to proselytize with sword and mace and spell, to cleave deep into the witless heart of the wilds and plant the seed of divinity there. Some say that it’s best to keep the gods close to your heart. You know that’s rubbish. God lives at the edge of a blade.

Show the world who is lord.

Cast your eyes around the fire. What has brought you to these people, stinking of the dust and sweat of the city? Perhaps it is a kindness—do you protect them as the mother bear watches over her cubs? Are they your pack, now? Strange brothers and sisters you have. Whatever your inspiration, they would certainly fail without your sharp senses and sharper claws.

You are of the sacred spaces; you are born of soil and wear the marks of her spirits on your skin. You may have had a life before, maybe you were a city dweller like them, but not now. You’ve given up that static shape. Listen to your allies pray to their carved stone gods and polish their silver shells. They speak of the glory they’ll find back in that festering town you left behind.

Their gods are children, their steel is false protection. You walk the old ways, you wear the pelts of the earth itself. You’ll take your share of the treasure, but will you ever walk as one of them? Only time will tell.

It’s a thankless job—living day to day by your armor and the skill of your arm, diving heedlessly into danger. They won’t be playing golden horns for the time you took that knife to the ribs for them in the bar in Bucksberg. No flock of angels will sing of the time you dragged them, still screaming, from the edge of the Pits of Madness, no.

Forget them.

You do this for the guts and the glory, for the scream of battle and the hot, hot blood of it. You are a beast of iron. Your friends may carry blades of forged steel but, fighter, you are steel. While your traveling companions might moan about their wounds around a campfire in the wilderness, you bear your scars with pride.

You are the wall—let every danger smash itself to dust on you. In the end, you’ll be the last one standing.

Hell awaits. An eternity of torment in fire or ice or whatever best suits the sins of the damned throngs of Dungeon World. All that stands between the pits of that grim torture and salvation is you. Holy man, armored war machine, templar of the Good and the Light, right? The cleric may say his prayers at night to the gods, dwelling in their heavens. The fighter may wield his sharp sword in the name of “good” but you know. Only you.

Eyes, hands, and sweet killing blow of the gods, you are. Yours is the gift of righteousness and virtue—of justice, of Vision, too. A purity of intent that your companions do not have.

So guide these fools, paladin. Take up your holy cause and bring salvation to the wastrel world.

These city-born folk you travel with. Have they heard the call of the wolf? Felt the winds howl in the bleak deserts of the East? Have they hunted their prey with the bow and the knife like you? Hell no. That’s why they need you.

Guide. Hunter. Creature of the wilds. You are these things and more. Your time in the wilderness may have been solitary until now, but the call of some greater thing—call it fate if you like—has cast your lot with these folk. Brave, they may be. Powerful and strong, too. But only you know the secrets of the spaces between.

Without you, they’d be lost. Blaze a trail through the blood and dark, strider.

You’ve heard them, sitting around the campfire. Bragging about this battle or that, or about how their gods are smiling on your merry band. You count your coins and smile to yourself—this is the thrill above all. You alone know the secret of Dungeon World: filthy, filthy lucre.

Sure, they give you lip for all the times you’ve snuck off alone, but without you, every one of them would have been dissected by a flying guillotine or poisoned straight to death by some ancient needle trap. So let them complain. When you’re done with all this delving you’ll toast their heroes’ graves.

From your castle. Full of gold. You rogue.

Dungeon World has rules. Not the laws of men or the rule of some petty tyrant. Bigger, better rules. You drop something—it falls. You can’t make something out of nothing. The dead stay dead, right?

Oh, the things we tell ourselves to feel better about the long, dark nights.

You’ve spent so very long poring over those tomes of yours. Conducting experiments that nearly drove you mad and casting summonings that endangered your very soul. For what? For power. What else is there? Not just the power of King or Country but the power to boil a man’s blood in his veins. To call on the thunder of the sky and the churn of the roiling earth. To shrug off the rules the world holds so dear.

Let them cast their sidelong glances. Let them call you “warlock” or “diabolist.” Who among them can hurl fireballs from their eyes?

Yeah. Didn’t think so.

Dungeon World has rules. Not the laws of men or the rule of some petty tyrant. Bigger, better rules. You drop something—it falls. You can’t make something out of nothing. The dead stay dead, right?

Oh, the things we tell ourselves to feel better about the long, dark nights.

You’ve spent so very long poring over those tomes of yours. The experiments that nearly drove you mad and all the botched summonings that endangered your very soul. For what? For power. What else is there? Not just the power of King or Country but the power to boil a man’s blood in his veins. To call on the thunder of the sky and the churn of the roiling earth. To shrug off the rules the world holds so dear.

Let them cast their sidelong glances. Let them call you “warlock” or “diabolist.” Who among them can hurl fireballs from their eyes?

Yeah. We didn’t think so.

Names
Elf: Galadiir, Fenfaril, Lilliastre, Phirosalle, Enkirash, Halwyr

Human: Avon, Morgan, Rath, Ysolde, Ovid, Vitus, Aldara, Xeno, Uri

Look
Choose one for each:

Haunted Eyes, Sharp Eyes, or Crazy Eyes

Styled Hair, Wild Hair, or Pointed Hat

Worn Robes, Stylish Robes, or Strange Robes

Pudgy Body, Creepy Body, or Thin Body

Stats
Your maximum HP is 4+Constitution.

Your base damage is d4.

Starting Moves
Choose a race and gain the corresponding move:

Elf
Magic is as natural as breath to you. Detect Magic is a cantrip for you.

Human
Choose one cleric spell. You can cast it as if it was a wizard spell.

You start with these moves:

Spellbook
You have mastered several spells and inscribed them in your spellbook. You start out with three first level spells in your spellbook as well as the cantrips. Whenever you gain a level, you add a new spell of your level or lower to your spellbook. You spellbook is 1 weight.

Prepare Spells
When you spend uninterrupted time (an hour or so) in quiet contemplation of your spellbook, you:

Lose any spells you already have prepared
Prepare new spells of your choice from your spellbook whose total levels don’t exceed your own level+1.
Prepare your cantrips which never count against your limit.
Cast a Spell (Int)
When you release a spell you’ve prepared, roll+Int.

? On a 10+, the spell is successfully cast and you do not forget the spell—you may cast it again later.

? On a 7-9, the spell is cast, but choose one:

You draw unwelcome attention or put yourself in a spot. The GM will tell you how.
The spell disturbs the fabric of reality as it is cast—take -1 ongoing to cast a spell until the next time you Prepare Spells.
After it is cast, the spell is forgotten. You cannot cast the spell again until you prepare spells.
Note that maintaining spells with ongoing effects will sometimes cause a penalty to your roll to cast a spell.

Spell Defense
You may end any ongoing spell immediately and use the energy of its dissipation to deflect an oncoming attack. The spell ends and you subtract its level from the damage done to you.

Ritual
When you draw on a place of power to create a magical effect, tell the GM what you’re trying to achieve. Ritual effects are always possible, but the GM will give you one to four of the following conditions:

It’s going to take days/weeks/months.
First you must                       .
You’ll need help from                       .
It will require a lot of money
The best you can do is a lesser version, unreliable and limited
You and your allies will risk danger from                       .
You’ll have to disenchant                        to do it.
Alignment
Choose an alignment:

Good
Use magic to directly aid another.

Neutral
Discover something about a magical mystery.

Evil
Use magic to cause terror and fear.

Gear
Your load is 7+Str. You start with your spellbook (1 weight) and dungeon rations (5 uses, 1 weight). Choose your defenses:

Leather armor (1 armor, 1 weight)
Bag of books (5 uses, 2 weight) and 3 healing potions
Choose your weapon:

Dagger (hand, 1 weight)
Staff (close, two-handed, 1 weight)
Choose one:

Healing potion (0 weight)
3 antitoxins (0 weight)
Bonds
Fill in the name of one of your companions in at least one:

                       will play an important role in the events to come. I have foreseen it!

                       is keeping an important secret from me.

                       is woefully misinformed about the world; I will teach them all that I can.

Advanced Moves
When you gain a level from 2-5, choose from these moves. You also add a new spell to your spellbook at each level.

Prodigy
Choose a spell. You prepare that spell as if it were one level lower.

Empowered Magic
When you cast a spell, on a 10+ you have the option of choosing from the 7-9 list. If you do, you may choose one of these as well:

The spell’s effects are maximized
The spell’s targets are doubled
Fount of Knowledge
When you spout lore about something no one else has any clue about, take +1.

Know-It-All
When another player’s character comes to you for advice and you tell them what you think is best, they get +1 forward when following your advice and you mark experience if they do.

Expanded Spellbook
Add a new spell from the spell list of any class to your spellbook.

Enchanter
When you have time and safety with a magic item you may ask the GM what it does, the GM will answer you truthfully.

Logical
When you use strict deduction to analyze your surroundings, you can discern realities with INT instead of WIS.

Arcane Ward
As long as you have at least one prepared spell of first level or higher, you have +2 armor.

Counterspell
When you attempt to counter an arcane spell that will otherwise affect you, stake one of your prepared spells on the defense and roll+Int.

? On a 10+, the spell is countered and has no effect on you.

? On a 7-9, the spell is countered and you forget the spell you staked. Your counterspell protects only you; if the countered spell has other targets they get its effects.

Quick Study
When you see the effects of an arcane spell, ask the GM the name of the spell and its effects. You take +1 when acting on the answers.

When you gain a level from 6-10, choose from these moves or the level 2-5 moves.

Master
Requires: Prodigy

Choose one spell in addition to the one you picked for prodigy. You prepare that spell as if it were one level lower.

Greater Empowered Magic
Replaces: Empowered Magic

When you cast a spell, on a 10-11 you have the option of choosing from the 7-9 list. If you do, you may choose one of these effects as well. On a 12+ you get to choose one of these effects for free:

The spell’s effects are doubled
The spell’s targets are doubled
Enchanter’s Soul
Requires: Enchanter

When you have time and safety with a magic item in a place of power you can empower that item so that the next time you use it its effects are amplified, the GM will tell you exactly how.

Highly Logical
Replaces: Logical

When you use strict deduction to analyze your surroundings, you can discern realities with Int instead of Wis. On a 12+ you get to ask the GM any three questions, not limited by the list.

Arcane Armor
Replaces: Arcane Ward

As long as you have at least one prepared spell of first level or higher, you have +4 armor.

Protective Counter
Requires: Counterspell

When an ally within sight of you is affected by an arcane spell, you can counter it as if it affected you. If the spell affects multiple allies you must counter for each ally separately.

Ethereal Tether
When you have time with a willing or helpless subject you can craft an ethereal tether with them. You perceive what they perceive and can discern realities about someone tethered to you or their surroundings no matter the distance. Someone willingly tethered to you can communicate with you over the tether as if you were in the room with them.

Mystical Puppet Strings
When you use magic to control a person’s actions they have no memory of what you had them do and bear you no ill will.

Spell Augmentation
When you deal damage to a creature you can shunt a spell’s energy into them—end one of your ongoing spells and add the spell’s level to the damage dealt.

Self-Powered
When you have time, arcane materials, and a safe space, you can create your own place of power. Describe to the GM what kind of power it is and how you’re binding it to this place, the GM will tell you one kind of creature that will have an interest in your workings.

Wizard Spells
Cantrips
You prepare all of your cantrips every time you prepare spells without having to select them or count them toward your allotment of spells.

Light
Level Cantrip

An item you touch glows with arcane light, about as bright as a torch. It gives off no heat or sound and requires no fuel, but it is otherwise like a mundane torch. You have complete control of the color of the flame. The spell lasts as long as it is in your presence.

Unseen Servant
Level Cantrip Ongoing

Description

You conjure a simple invisible construct that can do nothing but carry items. It has Load 3 and carries anything you hand to it. It cannot pick up items on its own and can only carry those you give to it. Items carried by an unseen servant appear to float in the air a few paces behind you. An unseen servant that takes damage or leaves your presence is immediately dispelled, dropping any items it carried. Otherwise the unseen servant serves you until you end the spell.

Prestidigitation
Level Cantrip

Description

You perform minor tricks of true magic. If you touch an item as part of the casting you can make cosmetic changes to it: clean it, soil it, cool it, warm it, flavor it, or change its color. If you cast the spell without touching an item you can instead create minor illusions no bigger than yourself. Prestidigitation illusions are crude and clearly illusions—they won’t fool anyone, but they might entertain them.

1st Level
Contact Spirits
Level 1 Summoning

Description

Name the spirit you wish to contact (or leave it to the GM). You pull that creature through the planes, just close enough to speak to you. It is bound to answer any one question you ask to the best of its ability.

Detect Magic
Level 1 Divination

Description

One of your senses is briefly attuned to magic. The GM will tell you what here is magical.

Telepathy
Level 1 Divination ongoing

Description

You form a telepathic bond with a single person you touch, enabling you to converse with that person through your thoughts. You can only have one telepathic bond at a time.

Charm Person
Level 1 Enchantment Ongoing

Description

The person (not beast or monster) you touch while casting this spell counts you as a friend until they take damage or you prove otherwise.

Invisibility
Level 1 Illusion Ongoing

Description

Touch an ally: nobody can see them. They’re invisible! The spell persists until the target attacks or you dismiss the effect. While the spell is ongoing you can’t cast a spell.

Magic Missile
Level 1 Evocation

Description

Projectiles of pure magic spring from your fingers. Deal 2d4 damage to one target.

Alarm
Level 1

Description

Walk a wide circle as you cast this spell. Until you prepare spells again your magic will alert you if a creature crosses that circle. Even if you are asleep, the spell will shake you from your slumber.

3rd Level
Dispel Magic
Level 3

Description

Choose a spell or magic effect in your presence: this spell rips it apart. Lesser spells are ended, powerful magic is just reduced or dampened so long as you are nearby.

Visions Through Time
Level 3 Divination

Description

Cast this spell and gaze into a reflective surface to see into the depths of time. The GM will reveal the details of a grim portent to you—a bleak event that will come to pass without your intervention. They’ll tell you something useful about how you can interfere with the grim portent’s dark outcomes. Rare is the portent that claims “You’ll live happily ever after.” Sorry.

Fireball
Level 3 Evocation

Description

You evoke a mighty ball of flame that envelops your target and everyone nearby, inflicting 2d6 damage which ignores armor.

Mimic
Level 3 Ongoing

Description

You take the form of someone you touch while casting this spell. Your physical characteristics match theirs exactly but your behavior may not. This change persists until you take damage or choose to return to your own form. While this spell is ongoing you lose access to all your wizard moves.

Mirror Image
Level 3 Illusion

Description

You create an illusory image of yourself. When you are attacked, roll a d6. On a 4, 5, or 6 the attack hits the illusion instead, the image then dissipates and the spell ends.

Sleep
Level 3 Enchantment

Description

1d4 enemies you can see of the GM’s choice fall asleep. Only creatures capable of sleeping are affected. They awake as normal: loud noises, jolts, pain.

5th Level
Cage
Level 5 Evocation Ongoing

Description

The target is held in a cage of magical force. Nothing can get in or out of the cage. The cage remains until you cast another spell or dismiss it. While the spell is ongoing, the caged creature can hear your thoughts and you cannot leave sight of the cage.

Contact Other Plane
Level 5 Divination

Description

You send a request to another plane. Specify who or what you’d like to contact by location, type of creature, name, or title. You open a two-way communication with that creature. Your communication can be cut off at any time by you or the creature you contacted.

Polymorph
Level 5 Enchantment

Description

Your touch reshapes a creature entirely, they stay in the form you craft until you cast a spell. Describe the new shape you craft, including any stat changes, significant adaptations, or major weaknesses. The GM will then tell you one or more of these:

The form will be unstable and temporary
The creature’s mind will be altered as well
The form has an unintended benefit or weakness
Summon Monster
Level 5 Summoning Ongoing

Description

A monster appears and aids you as best it can. Treat it as your character, but with access to only the basic moves. It has +1 modifier for all stats, 1 HP, and uses your damage dice. The monster also gets your choice of 1d6 of these traits:

It has +2 instead of +1 to one stat
It’s not reckless
It does 1d8 damage
Its bond to your plane is strong: +2 HP for each level you have
It has some useful adaptation
The GM will tell you the type of monster you get based on the traits you select. The creature remains on this plane until it dies or you dismiss it. While the spell is ongoing you take -1 to cast a spell.

7th Level
Dominate
Level 7 Enchantment Ongoing

Description

Your touch pushes your mind into someone else’s. You gain 1d4 hold. Spend one hold to make the target take one of these actions:

Speak a few words of your choice
Give you something they hold
Make a concerted attack on a target of your choice
Truthfully answer one question
If you run out of hold the spell ends. If the target takes damage you lose 1 hold. While the spell is ongoing you cannot cast a spell.

True Seeing
Level 7 Divination Ongoing

Description

You see all things as they truly are. This effect persists until you tell a lie or dismiss the spell. While this spell is ongoing you take -1 to cast a spell.

Shadow Walk
Level 7 Illusion

Description

The shadows you target with this spell become a portal for you and your allies. Name a location, describing it with a number of words up to your level. Stepping through the portal deposits you and any allies present when you cast the spell at the location you described. The portal may only be used once by each ally.

Contingency
Level 7 Evocation

Description

Choose a 5th level or lower spell you know. Describe a trigger condition using a number of words equal to your level. The chosen spell is held until you choose to unleash it or the trigger condition is met, whichever happens first. You don’t have to roll for the held spell, it just takes effect. You may only have a single contingent spell held at a time; if you cast Contingency while you have a held spell, the new held spell replaces the old one.

Cloudkill
Level 7 Summoning Ongoing

Description

A cloud of fog drifts into this realm from beyond the Black Gates of Death, filling the immediate area. Whenever a creature in the area takes damage it takes an additional, separate 1d6 damage which

ignores armor. This spell persists so long as you can see the affected area, or until you dismiss it.

Antipathy
Level 9 Enchantment Ongoing

Description

Choose a target and describe a type of creature or an alignment. Creatures of the specified type or alignment cannot come within sight of the target. If a creature of the specified type does find itself within sight of the target, it immediately flees. This effect continues until you leave the target’s presence or you dismiss the spell. While the spell is ongoing you take -1 to cast a spell.

Alert
Level 9 Divination

Description

Describe an event. The GM will tell you when that event occurs, no matter where you are or how far away the event is. If you choose, you can view the location of the event as though you were there in person. You can only have one Alert active at a time.

Soul Gem
Level 9

Description

You trap the soul of a dying creature within a gem. The trapped creature is aware of its imprisonment but can still be manipulated through spells, parley, and other effects. All moves against the trapped creature are at +1. You can free the soul at any time but it can never be recaptured once freed.

Shelter
Level 9 Evocation Ongoing

Description

You create a structure out of pure magical power. It can be as large as a castle or as small as a hut, but is impervious to all non-magical damage. The structure endures until you leave it or you end the spell.

Perfect Summons
Level 9 Summoning

Description

You teleport a creature to your presence. Name a creature or give a short description of a type of creature. If you named a creature, that creature appears before you. If you described a type of creature, a creature of that type appears before you.

Halfling: Felix, Rook, Mouse, Sketch, Trixie, Robin, Omar, Brynn, Bug

Human: Sparrow, Shank, Jack, Marlow, Dodge, Rat, Pox, Humble, Farley

Look
Choose one for each:

Shifty Eyes or Criminal Eyes

Hooded Head, Messy Hair, or Cropped Hair

Dark Clothes, Fancy Clothes, or Common Clothes

Lithe Body, Knobby Body, or Flabby Body

Stats
Your maximum HP is 6+Constitution.

Your base damage is d8.

Starting Moves
Choose a race and gain the corresponding move:

Halfling
When you attack with a ranged weapon, deal +2 damage.

Human
You are a professional. When you spout lore or discern realities about criminal activities, take +1.

You start with these moves:

Trap Expert
When you spend a moment to survey a dangerous area, roll+DEX.

? On a 10+, hold 3.

? On a 7–9, hold 1. Spend your hold as you walk through the area to ask these questions:

Is there a trap here and if so, what activates it?
What does the trap do when activated?
What else is hidden here?
Tricks of the Trade
When you pick locks or pockets or disable traps, roll+DEX.

? On a 10+, you do it, no problem.

? On a 7–9, you still do it, but the GM will offer you two options between suspicion, danger, or cost.

Backstab
When you attack a surprised or defenseless enemy with a melee weapon, you can choose to deal your damage or roll+DEX.

? On a 10+ choose two.

? On a 7–9 choose one.

You don’t get into melee with them
You deal your damage+1d6
You create an advantage, +1 forward to you or an ally acting on it
Reduce their armor by 1 until they repair it
Flexible Morals
When someone tries to detect your alignment you can tell them any alignment you like.

Poisoner
You’ve mastered the care and use of a poison. Choose a poison from the list below; that poison is no longer dangerous for you to use. You also start with three uses of the poison you choose. Whenever you have time to gather materials and a safe place to brew you can make three uses of the poison you choose for free. Note that some poisons are applied, meaning you have to carefully apply it to the target or something they eat or drink. Touch poisons just need to touch the target, they can even be used on the blade of a weapon.

Oil of Tagit (applied): The target falls into a light sleep
Bloodweed (touch): The target deals -1d4 damage ongoing until cured
Goldenroot (applied): The target treats the next creature they see as a trusted ally, until proved otherwise
Serpent’s Tears (touch): Anyone dealing damage to the target rolls twice and takes the better result.
Alignment
Choose an alignment:

Chaotic
Leap into danger without a plan.

Neutral
Avoid detection or infiltrate a location.

Evil
Shift danger or blame from yourself to someone else.

Gear
Your load is 9+Str. You start with dungeon rations (5 uses, 1 weight), leather armor (1 armor, 1 weight), 3 uses of your chosen poison, and 10 coins. Choose your arms:

Dagger (hand, 1 weight) and short sword (close, 1 weight)
Rapier (close, precise, 1 weight)
Choose a ranged weapon:

3 throwing daggers (thrown, near, 0 weight)
Ragged Bow (near, 2 weight) and bundle of arrows (3 ammo, 1 weight)
Choose one:

Adventuring gear (1 weight)
Healing potion (0 weight)
Bonds
Fill in the name of one of your companions in at least one:

I stole something from                       .

                       has my back when things go wrong.

                       knows incriminating details about me.

                       and I have a con running.

Advanced Moves
When you gain a level from 2–5, choose from these moves.

Cheap Shot
When using a precise or hand weapon, your backstab deals an extra +1d6 damage.

Cautious
When you use trap expert you always get +1 hold, even on a 6-.

Wealth and Taste
When you make a show of flashing around your most valuable possession, choose someone present. They will do anything they can to obtain your item or one like it.

Shoot First
You’re never caught by surprise. When an enemy would get the drop on you, you get to act first instead.

Poison Master
After you’ve used a poison once it’s no longer dangerous for you to use.

Envenom
You can apply even complex poisons with a pinprick. When you apply a poison that’s not dangerous for you to use to your weapon it’s touch instead of applied.

Brewer
When you have time to gather materials and a safe place to brew you can create three doses of any one poison you’ve used before.

Underdog
When you’re outnumbered, you have +1 armor.

Connections
When you put out word to the criminal underbelly about something you want or need, roll+CHA.

? On a 10+, someone has it, just for you.

? On a 7–9, you’ll have to settle for something close or it comes with strings attached, your call.

When you gain a level from 6–10, choose from these moves or the level 2–5 moves.

Dirty Fighter
Replaces: Cheap Shot

When using a precise or hand weapon, your backstab deals an extra +1d8 damage and all other attacks deal +1d4 damage.

Extremely Cautious
Replaces: Cautious

When you use trap expert you always get +1 hold, even on a 6-. On a 12+ you get 3 hold and the next time you come near a trap the GM will immediately tell you what it does, what triggers it, who set it, and how you can use it to your advantage.

Alchemist
Replaces: Brewer

When you have you have time to gather materials and a safe place to brew you can create three doses of any poison you’ve used before. Alternately you can describe the effects of a poison you’d like to create. The GM will tell you that you can create it, but with one or more caveats:

It will only work under specific circumstances
The best you can manage is a weaker version
It’ll take a while to take effect
It’ll have obvious side effects
Serious Underdog
Replaces: Underdog

You have +1 armor. When you’re outnumbered, you have +2 armor instead.

Evasion
When you defy danger on a 12+, you transcend the danger. You not only do what you set out to, but the GM will offer you a better outcome, true beauty, or a moment of grace.

Strong Arm, True Aim
You can throw any melee weapon, using it to volley. A thrown melee weapon is gone; you can never choose to reduce ammo on a 7–9.

Escape Route
When you’re in too deep and need a way out, name your escape route and roll+DEX.

? On a 10+ you’re gone.

? On a 7–9 you can stay or go, but if you go it costs you: leave something behind or take something with you, the GM will tell you what.

Disguise
When you have time and materials you can create a disguise that will fool anyone into thinking you’re another creature of about the same size and shape. Your actions can give you away but your appearance won’t.


